I was celebrating my birthday a day early. My parents came to visit to wish me all the best, giving me a gift in an envelope my mom set down on the kitchen table. They stayed for quite a while, curious as to what I would be studying in college.“Are you lightening up to becoming a doctor? Once you graduate you’re basically guaranteed to have a job!” My mother exclaims. I shake my head and continue the conversation. “I don’t know if I’d be able to handle that, you know. I can’t handle the sight of blood as well as you can.”. My applications were all sent a few days ago, at the cost of a busy summer. I was relieved to have finished my homework before they had arrived -  after seeing them out I went straight to sleep.

When I woke up, I felt as if I had never closed my eyes. My voice caught in my throat. The sensation of my eyelids closing and opening was there, but there was no difference. When my eyes were open, I could only see rough lines, bends, corners. With my eyes shut, they were gone, but the color was still there. I saw the outline of my phone on the floor next to the mattress I was laying down on. I picked it up, but the screen was completely incomprehensible, as if I was looking at a piece of sheet metal.

Of course I've known about this - everyone gets their colors when they turn 18. The problem is - I don't think I've heard of someone's vision developing like this before. I always thought you would go from binary vision to a deeper, more full way to see the world. How did I somehow go in reverse?

I looked around. What was the time? The sky outside my window was the same as my phone, my bed, and everything else. The old alarm clock, one my parents gave me years ago, was still running. An old birthday present. I can’t recall why I kept replacing the battery, but it helped me out immensely now. It looked like it was a quarter after 6. School was approaching fast. 

Not wanting my parents to inquire as to why I missed school, I quickly began preparing to leave. Going to the sink, water looked curious. I knew it was there, I could see straight through it, but it was difficult to discern its exact boundaries. I washed my face, found a toothbrush with some difficulty, and set off. On my way down the sidewalk, I check my clothes and hair. Looking at myself, I was almost no different from the road or sky. I had grabbed a shirt, a hoodie, and some sweatpants, judging by how they felt. My pace quickened.

Out on the road, the bearings I had tried to take hold of in my apartment completely vanished again. People looked like plastic figurines. Cars were boxes with headlights that went nowhere. Recognizing the bus stop across the road, navigated to the intersection - where could I cross? I tried to watch the lights and which cars went at what times, but time was running short. I ran across the road when I judged no one was too close, much to the dismay of the surrounding drivers. The bus arrived.

I almost took out my headphones before realizing my mistake - signs are just plates now. The bus' droning voice signaled my stop. Running to school, through buildings that resembled hospital walls, I arrived 5 minutes before classes began. Having remembered my classes, finding the room wasn't very difficult. The teacher greeted me upon entering. I replied with a 'good morning' and sat down near the back, kicking someone else's desk as I did so. 

I got time to think, my head on my forearms. Was this normal? How can I manage and not be a cause for concern? All the effort my parents put in to make sure my life would go smoothly would be put to waste. The classroom gradually fills. I take out a notebook and hope the page I turn to has no writing on it already. Luckily, today's activity was a self-paced set of problems. I took the sheet the teacher gave me and began pretending. I could vaguely make out faces, but not enough to discern concerned looks from passive gazes. A classmate's voice resounds from my left - a question about the limits of a power function. "I'm not sure either, working on the same one myself." I responded. Silence magnifies anxiety tenfold, I realized after a half hour. The bell rang and I packed my bags. The same classmate asks me why I left my laptop on my desk. I replied apologizing, saying I was in a rush, and grabbed my laptop. Having stuffed it in my bag and this time being certain that I had packed everything, I made my way out of the room.

My next class was microbiology, and I knew I wouldn't be as lucky with the work. There was a hands-on project today, where we would handle a fast-growing bacteria, studying what conditions made it easiest to spread, and what suppressed it. The report I had already filled out, but I had to actually perform the task. Before giving out materials, the instructor read through a long list of safety precautions we had to follow. This was an advanced class, after all, and the materials we worked with were not perfectly safe. 

I began to gather dishes and tools from the shelves in the back of the room as my other workmates cleaned our table and prepared their goggles and other safety materials. We began our project.

It was my fault. I knew my group mates were not to blame, but it was nice of them to apologize. I put down the petri dish and got a small tube full of water. My hand slipped, spilling the entire tube onto the dish, which then came right back at my face, like putting a spoon or lid under fast-flowing water. It was immensely painful at first, and then the outlines disappeared, as I rushed to the eyewash station.

I should call my parents, unless the school already did. 
